(Reuters) - The stock market slowly returned to life on Wednesday after two days in the dark, in the wake of the massive storm Sandy that caused the market's first weather-related two-day closure since Grover Cleveland was president.

The major stock indexes' early gains were short-lived as buying receded quickly. The S&P 500 was modestly lower in a session that is on track to be busier than the average day in U.S. markets, in part because of pent-up demand after the two-day closure.

Traders made it through the darkened streets of downtown Manhattan before sunrise to the New York Stock Exchange at 11 Wall Street, one of the only buildings with any electricity in that area after Sandy crippled power supply and disrupted mass transit throughout the New York metropolitan region.

"I was driving in at 5:45 this morning in the dark, but the red and blue lights of the exchange were on, and it was clear that ours was the only building down here that was functional," said Jonathan Corpina, senior managing partner at Meridian Equity Partners, in New York.

The two-day weather break was the first multi-day closure for weather since 1888. It was a rare occurrence that affected long-time floor traders, the small corner of human element still remaining in a market that has become mostly electronic. Floor traders have opened after adverse events in the past, with the last weather-related closure resulting from Hurricane Gloria in September 1985.

"Sometimes we closed early, and sometimes we opened late, but it's always been open," said Ted Weisberg, president and trader at Seaport Securities, a veteran of the trading floor for 43 years. "That's the psyche that the people on the floor operate with."

Trading volume was average, with more than 3 billion shares exchanging hands before midday on the NYSE, Nasdaq and NYSE MKT. The major U.S. stock indexes were trading slightly lower and a pick-up in volume was expected ahead of the market's close on the last trading day of the month.

"The open was a positive relief after four days of sitting on edge," said Larry Leibowitz, the chief operating officer at NYSE operator NYSE/Euronext. "No matter how much planning you do, you can't foresee that kind of flooding."

Not everything was working as usual. Cell phone reception was sketchy on the floor, so traders were mulling around outside the exchange building making calls, texting and emailing on their phones.

Knight Capital, the nation's largest market maker - which buys and sells stocks on behalf of clients - told clients to send orders to other brokerages due to power issues. The Jersey City, N.J.-based company said its backup generators failed, hurting its ability to take orders and trade stocks and options.

Unsurprisingly, investors made a knee-jerk move to buy companies that stand to benefit from home repairs. Home Depot climbed 2.4 percent to $61.46 while rival Lowe's rose 3.5 percent to $32.46.

Generator manufacturer Generac Holdings shares shot up 21 percent to $34.27, building on a rally that started before Sandy. The company reported earnings Tuesday evening and said the rest of the year would be better than expected because of increased demand for home generators.

"We're seeing reactions from Home Depot and the insurers. But I think these will be relatively short-lived. What matters is the election and the fiscal cliff," Weisberg said.

After midday, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 30.79 points, or 0.23 percent, to 13,076.42. The S&P 500 dipped 2.68 points, or 0.19 percent, to 1,409.26. The Nasdaq Composite lost 16.20 points, or 0.54 percent, to 2,971.75.

Ford Motor Co rallied 6.5 percent to $10.98 as the NYSE's most-active stock after the automaker reported strong results while the market was closed. General Motors reported earnings that beat expectations, driving its shares up 9 percent to $25.37.

Weakness in Apple Inc, which announced management changes earlier in the week, weighed on the Nasdaq. The stock fell 1.4 percent to $595.29.

Facebook shares slid 3.7 percent to $21.13 after the end of a lockup that had prevented some employees from selling stock.

Walt Disney Co agreed to buy filmmaker George Lucas's Lucas film Ltd and its "Star Wars" franchise for $4.05 billion in cash and stock, a blockbuster deal that includes the surprising promise of a new film in the series in 2015. Disney, a Dow component, fell 1.9 percent to $49.11.

The exchange allowed parking on nearby streets, another strange sight in an area normally locked down for security concerns.
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton says Washington hopes new Syrian opposition talks next week will produce a new rebel leadership that represents those fighting and dying in the country.

Clinton said the United States is recommending names and organizations that should feature prominently in anew opposition structure emerging from talks in Doha.  She said the Syrian National Council, composed mainly of exiles, can no longer be viewed as the leader of the opposition, but it can still play a role.

Speaking Wednesday in the Croatian capital, Clinton said a newly united Syrian opposition "must be on record" resisting attempts by Islamist extremists to hijack the revolution against Bashar al-Assad's government.

In Paris, talks between French and Russian officials failed to resolve deep disagreements over Syria.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov accused the West of fueling the violence by insisting Mr. Assad abandon power.

Earlier in Beijing, U.N.-Arab League envoy Lakhdar Brahimi urged China to be a part of a solution to Syria's crisis, telling Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi that China should "play an active role" in resolving the 19-month conflict.

Brahimi met earlier this week with Russian officials.  China and Russia have vetoed three U.N. Security Council resolutions that could have led to sanctions against the Syrian government.  

Brahimi had called for a cease-fire during the Muslim Eid al-Adha holiday, but both Syrian rebels and government ignored the truce.  

Violence continued Wednesday. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported government air strikes on opposition strongholds around Damascus and in the north.

No casualties were reported in the air raids, but Syrian state media said a bomb blast killed at least six people near a Shi'ite shrine in a suburb of the capital.

More than 185 people were reported killed across Syria in airstrikes and artillery shelling on Tuesday.
IDG News Service - Microsoft has been slapped with a patent infringement lawsuit over its use of dynamic "live" tile icons in Windows, including in the newly launched Windows 8 OS for PCs and tablets and in the Windows Phone 8 OS for smartphones.

SurfCast, based in Portland, Maine, filed its lawsuit on Tuesday in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine, and is asking for Microsoft to pay an undetermined amount of money in damages and attorneys' fees.

At issue is U.S. Patent 6,724,403, titled "System and Method for Simultaneous Display of Multiple Information Sources," which SurfCast was awarded in 2004.

SurfCast takes issue with Windows' use of live tiles, which are rectangular or square icons in the Start screen of new Windows versions that provide links to applications, websites, contacts and other elements. SurfCast describes itself on its website as a designer of OS technology. It claims to have developed the live tile technology in the 1990s.

Unlike conventional icons, live tiles display dynamically-changing data about the element it links to, such as the number of unread messages in users' email inboxes and alerts about new notifications from their social networking accounts.

Live tiles are a key user interface feature in a variety of new Windows versions, including Windows 8, Windows 8 Pro, Windows Phone 8 and Windows RT, which is a Windows 8 version for devices that use ARM chips. Microsoft first used live tiles in Windows Phone 7.

Starting with Windows 7 and most significantly with the just-launched Windows 8 OS family, Microsoft redesigned the Windows user interface around the use of these tile icons, so as to optimize the OS for use with touchscreen tablets and smartphones.

Windows is a minor player in tablets and smartphones, whose sales have been booming in the past three years. Google's Android and Apple's iOS are the main OSes used in tablets and smartphones.

Microsoft didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

Juan Carlos Perez covers enterprise communication/collaboration suites, operating systems, browsers and general technology breaking news for The IDG News Service. Follow Juan on Twitter at @JuanCPerezIDG.

Halloween used to be a one-night event. When I was a kid, my mother helped me and my brothers put together costumes — usually, homemade. We carved a pumpkin. Maybe we bobbed for a few apples. We went trick-or-treating in our neighborhood. We tried to con each other into trading candy we liked better. And that was it, until the next year.

Times have changed. Halloween has morphed into days — even weeks — of October parties, festivals and candy giveaways that strain budgets and overload youngsters with more sweets than my Milky Way-addled childhood brain could ever have imagined. There’s no need for sibling bargaining, when everyone has an overabundance of treats.

I find this “holiday creep” annoying, not to mention potentially fattening, as well as expensive. The average American will spend nearly $80 on decorations, costumes and candy this year, up from $72 last year, according to the National Retail Federation. Total Halloween spending is expected to be about $8 billion.

It’s not that the organizers of all the extra events aren’t well intentioned. Last week, my children attended a “fall festival” (it involves costumes and candy, but is apparently named so as not to put off those who object to Halloween). It was a fund-raiser for a very deserving local charity. But bringing two children, plus a friend, totaled $60 for the night. (I realize I have free will, and could simply have chosen not to go. But it gets harder to sit out when excess celebration is becoming the norm, and all of your children’s friends are attending, too).

Today, my younger child had a celebration at school. (Call me a party pooper, but I didn’t bake cupcakes.) And this afternoon, my offspring will go trick-or-treating at their dad’s workplace, where employees elaborately decorate their cubicles for the holiday to entertain the kids. Finally, at dusk, we’ll venture out into the neighborhood for the actual door-to-door event.

In addition to being tiring, the cost of all this partying adds up. Unless you’re adept at homemade costumes or have time to browse thrift shops, you’ll pay about $15 to $20 per child for an out-of-the-bag get-up, and three to four times that if you order from a higher-end catalog. If your child is the messy type, you may need more than one costume for the different events, which adds to the cost. (My youngest was a vampire for the fall festival, but agreed – whew! – to recycle a Pocahontas costume from a school play for the “official” trick-or-treat outing.) This year we’re pet owners, so my kids begged for a pumpkin sweater for the dog. (O.K., I do have to admit that she looks really cute).

By the time we’re finished, we’ll have shopping bags full of candy. This is the situation that leads parents to turn to the “Halloween fairy,” who takes away excess treats in exchange for a toy, which adds to the cost further. But wouldn’t it make more sense to scale back the excess in the first place?

How do you keep the lid on Halloween, without appearing to be a killjoy?



The logo for Apple Inc

Finally Apple has crumbled back under $600 as its descent resumes.  Maybe you can blame it on the infighting that broke into public view in recent days with Tim Cook firing Scott Forstall, his competitor for Apple’s  top banana when Steve Jobs resigned days before his death. Or maybe recent fohpahs reveal deeper problems and competitors coming on strong.

Press reports suggest that Forstall was as mercurial and difficult as Steve Jobs was known to be.  Recently, Forstall was on the hot seat for Siri, the speaking assistant that sometimes works and sometimes garbles everything, and the dismal failure of Apple Maps as released on the new iPhone 5.

Judging From Apple's Apology, Maps Matter and Nokia Has Maps That Work
Joan Lappin
Contributor
 
How Long Can Apple Remain King Of Mobile Devices?
Joan Lappin
Contributor
 
Apple's "Killer" iPhones, Killing Phone Company Margins
Joan Lappin
Contributor
 
Three Things Apple iPads Do Well For Seniors and the One Huge Error Its Design Failed To Consider
Joan Lappin
Contributor
Also canned was Cook’s own recent hire of  John Browett, as head of retail stores, only  months after he was brought  into the company from the UK’s Dixon Stores.   Browett tried to apply some cost cutting measures to the stores against which store employees rebelled and he reportedly didn’t mesh into the Apple culture.  Apparently, Browett just wasn’t cutting Cook’s mustard so one hopes the door doesn’t hit him on the way out.

Press reports indicate that Apple has become the same sort of warring tribes workplace that once king of the hill Motorola had become  years ago. And, we know a decade later that Motorola is now losing money hand over fist as a division of Google. A once innovative culture became a corporate morass.  For sure, GOOG bought it for its expansive,  first mover in cellular telephony, patent position.  Google has the added problem with Motorola of producing smartphones in competition with its Android licensees who are building devjces that consumers are finding far more attractive than Motorola’s designs. Think the Samsung Galaxy S 3, for example.

Sir Jonathon Ivey has long been   in charge of Industrial Design, or the brilliant hardware side of Apple design. Mrs. Steve Jobs has described him as well as Scott Forstall as part of the Apple Core so vital to the company’s extraordinary success. There has been concern of late that the software end of things which Forstall was running  is not so tightly focused in its execution of one very central software design concept across all platforms and software packages.

When it comes to consumer products it is not hard to be dislodged from the top dog position. Motorola had its flip phones and then its RaZr devices that were in very high demand ten years ago. They held a high market share position that was superceded by Nokia and more recently by Apple.  Google is actually the dominant smartphone platform at this time but it is spread across several manufacturers. It does show that most people do not buy an Apple smartphone.  I believe, and we will soon see if they can deliver, that the combined Nokia/ Microsoft effort will be successful beyond current sub basement expectations.

Yes, I love my iPad and take it with me everywhere. I don’t really want a Mini with its smaller screen. But, at least once or twice a week I am infuriated that I am trying to access a website that is being served up using Flash and I cannot see the slides on a conference call or access retail information from a merchant.  I’d much prefer to have a table that will allow me to access the other Windows programs that I have used for years, even if they look different and I have a learning curve to absorb. I’d like to be able to easily coordinate my Outlook calendar with other devices.

So I am queuing up for the Lumia 920 which isn’t yet for sale in the U.S. but will be available for sale any day now at ATT (or they will miss the Holiday Selling Season). Reviews for its camera are fabulous and that is very important to me.  The Geeks seem to love it and it is a fresh operating system, a description that objective observers seem to think no longer applies to Apple. U.S. Telcos are also looking for a third very viable alternative to the outrageous prices Apple has been charging. So if Nokia/Microsoft products take off, Apple will suffer from declining selling prices and margins.

Surely  Tim Cook knows that it is hard to stay at the top in his industry. Steve Jobs was unique in the degree to which he was a visionary. His gift was imagining things we never knew we wanted.  It sounds as if Tim Cook is an assertive corporate type, put in place to control those with vision who trained at Steve’s right hand.  He’s made his calls this week to control his warring tribes. It will be interesting in a decade to see where Apple fits into the landscape.  If devices take three years to nurture, manufacture and bring to market, then Apple has another decent couple of years to proceed with Steve’s ideas. After that, they are on their own.  Maybe that is why Apple’s success has not been rewarded at its peak with an outrageous multiple.

One last thing is that today is the last day for many investment pools and mutual funds to complete their year. Owning Apple was a big winner this year, particularly until the last month. Many fund managers were willing to do anything to support the stock to retain their 2011 performance. That ends with October year end closings.  No need to have Apple as a core holding any longer. What was great about Apple for anyone running institutional money was that the price was so high (like Google, too) that if you bought a few shares you spent a lot of money without having to purchase millions and millions of shares. hose folks have put something of a floor under the stock until now. that will slip away now as many of them rush for the door.

Joan E. Lappin CFA  Gramercy Capital Management

Looking for help with your investment portfolio in these turbulent times ?Put our decades of experience to work for you. Contact us at info@gramercycapital.com. Follow Joan on twitter @JoanLappin

Mrs. Lappin, Gramercy Capital and its clients own shares in Nokia at this time.